Drafting calibration problem solution. (#7)
rossyndicate/ross.wq.tools: vignettes/fixing_calibrations.Rmd

files. The process corrects sensor drift and applies temporal interpolation 
between calibrations to produce accurate time series data.

This vignette will also demonstrate when the back-calibrations work effectively 
and when they do not. 

# Overview

There are 4 steps in this workflow, and each step usually has some sub-steps within
it. The first step is to extract the relevant calibration data from the calibration 

> HTML files that are provided by In-Situ. The next step is to join this calibration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTML files that are generated during a calibration/swap by the In-Situ instrument. The next step is to join this calibration
```

```{r load-cal-data}
load_calibration_data(
  cal_data_file_path = here::here("data", "collated", "sensor", "cal_reports", "munged_calibration_data.RDS"),
  update = TRUE,
  field_cal_dir = here::here("data", "raw", "sensor", "calibration_reports"),
  benchtop_cal_dir = here::here("data", "raw","sensor", "calibration_reports", "benchtop_calibrations")
)

# TODO: incorporate pH back calibrations
# TODO: still need to find the right measure to determine if a calibration is bad 

# Temporarily remove pH to test this
calibration_data <- calibration_data %>%
  map(function(year_list){
    year_list[!str_detect(names(year_list), "pH")]
  })
```

The `load_calibration_data()` function loads the calibration coefficients and 
drift correction information which were extracted from the HTML calibration files,
if they exist within the file path which is provided to it. 

If the data does not exist, or the `update` option is set to `TRUE`, this function 
calls the `cal_extract_markup_data()`, which generates this calibration data 
fresh from raw HTML files from the directory provided to it. By default these 
directories are: `field_cal_dir = here("data", "calibration_reports")` and

> `benchtop_cal_dir = here("data", "calibration_reports", "benchtop_calibrations")`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`benchtop_cal_dir = here("data", "raw", "sensor", "calibration_reports", "benchtop_calibrations")`.
```

- sonde_serial: Serial number for the sonde.
- sensor_serial: Serial number for the sensor.
- slope: The slope calibration coefficient for the current calibration.
- offset: The offset calibration coefficient for the current calibration.
- units: Units of the slope and offset.
- slope_units: Units specifically for slope (for pH)
- offset_units: Units specifically for offset (for pH)
- point: Specifies which calibration point the information is for. For multi-point calibrations (pH).
- correct calibration: Whether or not the current calibration information is correct.
- sensor_date_lead: The following date when the sensor was correctly calibrated.
- slope_lead: The following slope calibration coefficient when the sensor was correctly calibrated.
- offset_lead: The following offset calibration coefficient when the sensor was correctly calibrated.
- correct_calibration_lead: Whether or not the follwoing calibration information is correct.

# Load Sensor Data

```{r load-snsr-data}
# Read in 2023, 2024, and 2025 sensor data
# sensor_data <- readr::read_rds(
# here::here("data", "raw", "sensor", "manual_data_verification",
#            "complete_dataset",  "23_25_hv_pull"))

> sensor_data <- arrow::read_parquet(

Reviewer: I think if we are trying to be realistic our workflow we should use the data generated right after  
summarized_data <- combined_data %>%
  map(~generate_summary_statistics(.))
  in our workflow but this file works as an example for now

# Load Sensor Data

```{r load-snsr-data}
# Read in 2023, 2024, and 2025 sensor data
# Need to update this to use the correct data source that Sam updated

sensor_data <- read_rds(here("..", "poudre_sonde_network", "data", "manual_data_verification", "complete_dataset", "23_25_hv_pull"))

# adding field flag data

> sensor_data <- sensor_data %>% 

Reviewer 2: Error in `map()`:
ℹ In index: 1.
ℹ With name: 2023.
Caused by error in `map()`:
ℹ In index: 1.
ℹ With name: archery-Chl-a Fluorescence.
Caused by error in `dplyr::mutate()`:
ℹ In argument: `flag = dplyr::case_when(...)`.
Caused by error in `dplyr::case_when()`:
! Failed to evaluate the left-hand side of formula 1.
Caused by error:
! object 'sonde_employed' not found
Run `rlang::last_trace()` to see where the error occurred.

Now, I'm getting this error after finding the "fcw.qaqc::" calls...

and drift correction measurements (pre- and post-calibration standard readings),
along with their related identification and datetime information.

UPDATE (JPD): I will definitely incorporate the following code into one of the functions here (probably the 
data generation one), but I wanted to draft here to see what I could do with what
I had already. 

# Extract Sensor Specific Calibration Information
```{r}
cal_provenance <- calibration_data  %>% 
  map_dfr(function(year){
    calibrated_site_param_list <- year %>%
      map_dfr(function(site_param){
        site_param %>% 
          select(sensor, sensor_serial, sensor_date, calibration_coefs)
      })
  })

> 

Reviewer: This seems like the point where we would want to remove any bad calibrations (either by some automated method or user defined). Correct?

# Load Sensor Data

```{r load-snsr-data}
# Read in 2023, 2024, and 2025 sensor data

> sensor_data <- readr::read_rds(

Reviewer 2: What is this dataset, exactly? Based on its file path I would have assumed it was already manually verified... but it doesn't appear to be. Is this instead a dataframe of all the raw data before verification? @SamStruthers  maybe you can help clarify what this is?

Reviewer 2: And just to re-affirm here... I'm envisioning this calibration step to occur BEFORE any auto-QAQC and manual verification. I'm certain we have all discussed this and agreed upon this multiple times, but wanted to state it again here. :)

data that are unable to be back-calibrated), and then groups the data so that 
bad calibrations are able to be back-calibrated using relevant good calibrations.

```{r prep-data}
prepped_snsr_cal_data <- cal_prepare_calibration_windows(
  sensor_calibration_data_list = sensor_calibration_data
)
```

# Back Calibration

Finally, we are able to back-calibrate the data. The process for back-calibration
starts with creating a temporal weight to mix the two sequential calibration periods
through time. Then, we use this information to transition the data from one calibration
period to the next. Basically, we start with the former calibration weighted maximally,
and the latter calibration weighted minimally and linearly transition to the latter
calibration weighted maximally, and the former calibration weighted minimally. Note
that we are mixing these calibrations, as the middle step in this process would weigh
both calibrations equally. Finally, there is a verification step to check which 
calibrations were successful and which failed.

```{r Apply back calibration functions to the data}
calibrated_data <- prepped_snsr_cal_data %>% 

>   map(function(year){

Reviewer: this map should be a bit easier if we do it year by year like we do manual verification :)

  
  return(p)
}
```

```{r}
# Explore the data
# Update `plot_df` and run this chunk to plot the data you want to see
plot_df <- calibrated_data$`2024`$`cottonwood-DO`
ex_plot(plot_df)
```

```{r}
# Explore the calibrations that were used
plot_df %>% 
  group_by(sensor_date) %>% 
  slice_min(DT_round, n = 1) %>%
  arrange(DT_round) %>%
  View(.)
```

# Some examples

## Ideal situation

```{r}
plot_df <- check_list$`2024`$`sfm-Specific Conductivity`
ex_plot(plot_df)
```
Here the grey line is the original data that we pulled from the sensor, green
lines would be data that had a good calibration, and red lines are those data that
had a bad calibration.

Here we can see what this workflow is supposed to accomplish. The workflow was able 
to automatically identify a bad calibration, is that information to convert it to a
raw value, and then use the correct calibration information to convert those raw
values into sensor readings that are in line with the patterns of the data.

## Back-calibration error

```{r}
plot_df <- check_list$`2024`$`salyer-pH`
ex_plot(plot_df)
```

Here we can see some errors that are possible with this workflow. Let's focus on
these two errors one at a time.

> Lets start with the left most error, the portion of this graph where the green 

Reviewer: Thanks for this little summary!

# Back Calibration

```{r Apply back calibration functions to the data}
calibrated_data <- prepped_snsr_cal_data %>% 
  map(function(year){

>     calibrated_site_param_list <- year %>%

Reviewer 2: but, don't we need the "bad cal" to correct calibrations before or after it?
